# week 02 08-14/01/2024

Summary:

- [week 02 08-14/01/2024](#week-02-08-14012024)
  - [Technical](#technical)
    - [POE](#poe)
    - [dhcp/routing](#dhcprouting)
      - [EoW state](#eow-state)
      - [Long term possible solutions](#long-term-possible-solutions)
  - [Procurements](#procurements)
  - [Next Week objective](#next-week-objective)

---

## Technical

### POE

- hat ok on PI4 01

- hat ok on PI4 legacy with SSD attached. Enough power

plug and play


### dhcp/routing

Main difficulty of the week. No good solution was found.

Problem :

L2 connectivity is totally fine. PoE is totally fine. 

When trying to leverage to features of L3 functionalities it became hard.

- BUG livebox !

Did NOT manage to request a prefix wider than /64. Did not manage to have the requested subnetwork routed to another interface than the gateway-livebok network.

Meaning couldn't not isolate my PI from the Livebox. 

https://x0r.fr/blog/76

- Bug routerOS ?

Did NOT manage to dhcpv6 serve ipv6 address that are not /64. Might be a misconfiguration from my end.

#### EoW state

- Pi legacy sharing L2 on the same bridge as the outgoing interface of the router contacting Livebox for it's IPs.

- Pi01 having int wlan01 connect directly to the livebox and the ethernet interface to the LAN bridge.

V4 Traffic from PI towards internet is achieved with double NATing.

V4 traffic from internet to Pi01 is not tested yet. Could be achieved by 

#### Long term possible solutions

Changing Design without LiveBox.

Using NOIP dyndns V6 address at node level to update the Ingress Node on DNS ( probably impossible with v4 )

Having a load balancer before the livebox

## Procurements

Order for a simple case. ( UCTRONICS Raspberry Pi Cluster Case U6244  )

Order for cables.

## Next Week objective

- Dhcp V6 reachability from outside.

- V6 RA RS analysis ( wireshark?, Tool routerOS ? )
