# week num 03 15-21/01/2024

Summary:

- [week num 03 15-21/01/2024](#week-num-03-15-21012024)
  - [Technical](#technical)
    - [Network issues](#network-issues)
      - [Ipv4 + double NAT](#ipv4--double-nat)
      - [IPV6 bugs](#ipv6-bugs)
    - [Utils](#utils)
    - [Mikroktik backup](#mikroktik-backup)
    - [Power](#power)
  - [Issues](#issues)
  - [Procurements](#procurements)
  - [Next Week objective](#next-week-objective)

---

## Technical

### Network issues

#### Ipv4 + double NAT

Managed to get a web page from my LAN post mikrotik available from "outside". (Tested from LiveBox LAN lb_lan vs mt_lan).

I think I will live with (dirty) setup for now.

Note: No VLAN within a bridge yet created. But I feel like digging to it. Feel like refresing so concepts and toolings of my CCNA.
Long term goal could be to have redundancy at L3 switch level ( PoE redundancy through usbC ? don't really want to spend time on this yet. Connectivity should be fun enough. )

Not to be implemented physically without a proper digital architechture first. See if GNS3 with routerOs images work properly.

#### IPV6 bugs

Manage to dig into ND: NA NS RA RS ... with tcpdump on Ubuntu

Sniffer with mikrotik still obscur.

To address the main issue I consider putting mikrotik router in front the Livebox. To get a proper network management. Managing each network for a purpuse and do not put server and other clients/gets in the same lan. ( play with DNS, threats ... ) lafibre.info seems to have a couple of tutos on this.

Otherwise I will still try to NAT my ipv6 but since I will still have to tweek things to choose the ingress node from inside and not put both addresses in the DNS records I am loosing interest into it.

### Utils

New page created to synthesize newly encountered commands and repos

Script to generate skeleton for new week blog page.

### Mikroktik backup

Created ansible role to export config ( + facts ) each day and write the repo locally.

### Power

Last Pi5 is plugged and online. didn't seem to bother about the power. See vcgencmd measure_volts core

## Issues

Legacy Pi4 way too noisy with HAT on. Temperature is quite low.

sudo vcgencmd measure_temp
temp=54.5'C

Maybe write a role to start active cooling on higher temperatures.

## Procurements

Nothing received this week. Last Pi5 is plugged and online.

SSD purchase canceled.

Short term After case reception:

- [ ] NVMe Hat pi 5
- [ ] SSD NVMe
- [ ] SSD "big" for PI4
- [ ] 2 Cables for SSD to PI4
- [ ] [Pi5 active cooler](https://www.amazon.fr/Heqishun-Dissipateurs-Raspberry-Thermo-conducteur-dissipateur/dp/B0814V66JV/ref=sr_1_21)

Probable

- [ ] 2 Spf
- [ ] A fiber cable

Long term:

- [ ] NVMe NAS
- [ ] Another CRS112-8P-4S for high availability.

I wish !

## Next Week objective

- [ ] More IPv6 digging
- [ ] GNS3 on windows ( routerOS ? )
- [ ] K8s with ansible first steps
